+++
title = "UTXOs Explained: Understanding Bitcoin Transactions for Beginners"
template = "post.html"
+++


### Agenda

7:00pm Meet and greet  
7:15pm News / Current Events  
7:30pm UTXOs Explained: Understanding Bitcoin Transactions for Beginners  

In this discussion, we will  

- Learn one of the fundamentals of Bitcoin: What is an unspent transaction output (UTXO).
- Learn what a UTXO has to do with the bitcoin blockchain.
- Learn how UTXOs are created, how they are consumed, and what they have to do with bitcoin transactions.
- See UTXOs in popular web based block explorers.
- Take a look at the current number of UTXOs in the bitcoin blockchain.
- Discuss how digital signatures are able to authorize the transfer ownership of the bitcoin stored in UTXOs to new UTXOs.
- Discuss how UTXOs are used by wallets and how poor wallet design and use can lead to poor transactional privacy.
- Mention CoinJoin transactions and how they seek to improve the privacy.

9:00pm Close  


### Location

The event is hosted at **McCarthy Stevenot Agency, Inc**:

209 Main St  
Milford, OH 45150  
(Looks like an art gallery and has old trains in the front window).  

[Map](https://www.google.com/maps/place/McCarthy+Stevenot+Agency,+Inc./@39.1741388,-84.2966441,17z/data=!4m12!1m6!3m5!1s0x884053ded069cfdf:0xa6db0edc78b578da!2sMcCarthy+Stevenot+Agency,+Inc.!8m2!3d39.1741282!4d-84.295781!3m4!1s0x884053ded069cfdf:0xa6db0edc78b578da!8m2!3d39.1741282!4d-84.295781)


### Reminders

- No photos, videos, audio recording
- [Chatham House Rule](https://www.chathamhouse.org/about-us/chatham-house-rule)
- Leave the meeting space as clean as you found it
- Suggest topics for the next meetup! [Where to find topics?](/about/find-topics)


